# Application

Application model represents the metadata for a client application that has its
own identity and associated configuration with the LoopBack server.

## Each application has the following basic properties:

* id: Automatically generated id
* name: Name of the application (required)
* description: Description of the application (optional)
* icon: URL of the icon
* status: Status of the application, such as production/sandbox/disabled
* created: Timestamp of the record being created
* modified: Timestamp of the record being modified

## An application has the following properties linking to users:

* owner: The user id of the developer who registers the application
* collaborators: A array of users ids who have permissions to work on this app

## oAuth 2.0 settings

* url: The application url
* callbackUrls: An array of preregistered callback urls for oAuth 2.0
* permissions: An array of oAuth 2.0 scopes that can be requested by the application

## Security keys

The following keys are automatically generated by the application creation
process. They can be reset upon request.

* clientKey: Secret for mobile clients
* javaScriptKey: Secret for JavaScript clients
* restApiKey: Secret for REST APIs
* windowsKey: Secret for Windows applications
* masterKey: Secret for REST APIS. It bypasses model level permissions

## Push notification settings

The application can be configured to support multiple methods of push notifications.

* pushSettings


     pushSettings: {
        apns: {
          certData: config.apnsCertData,
          keyData: config.apnsKeyData,
          production: false, // Development mode
          pushOptions: {
            // Extra options can go here for APN
          },
          feedbackOptions: {
            batchFeedback: true,
            interval: 300
          }
        },
        gcm: {
          serverApiKey: config.gcmServerApiKey
        }
      }


## Authentication schemes

* authenticationEnabled
* anonymousAllowed
* authenticationSchemes

### Authentication scheme settings

* scheme: Name of the authentication scheme, such as local, facebook, google,
twitter, linkedin, github
* credential: Scheme-specific credentials

## APIs for Application model

In addition to the CRUD methods, the Application model also has the following
apis:

### Register a new application

You can register a new application by providing the owner user id, application
name, and other properties in the options object.

    Application.register('rfeng', 'MyApp1',
        {description: 'My first loopback application'},
        function (err, result) {
            var app = result;
        ...
    });

### Reset keys

You can reset keys for a given application by id.

    Application.resetKeys(appId, function (err, result) {
        var app = result;
        ...
    });

### Authenticate by appId and key

You can authenticate an application by id and one of the keys. If successful,
it calls back with the key name in the result argument. Otherwise, the
keyName is null.

    Application.authenticate(appId, clientKey, function (err, keyName) {
            assert.equal(keyName, 'clientKey');
            ...
    });


